1. WHY IS TREATMENT AT R K NATURE CURE HOME RESIDENTIAL?
Naturopathy is a system of medical practice that emphasizes understanding the vital capacity of the physiological and psychological needs of the person according to age, the disease's root cause and the ailment's chronicity. The treatment modules are planned to assist and facilitate all the physiological systems to restore optimal normalcy and functional capacity. Since all these treatments are imparted in a drugless method, it requires a specific duration to comprehensively address all the health problems. During the stay, counselling, diet reform and a planned sequence of treatments are imparted, which requires discipline and ownership of patients towards their health. Hence, the R K Nature Cure Home treatment program is purely residential and outpatient treatment is not undertaken. However, follow-up treatments can be availed as an outpatient if the Doctor recommends them.
2. HOW MANY NUMBER OF DAYS OF STAY IS ADVISABLE (MAX AND MIN)?
Naturopathy is not focused on cosmetic improvements to daily life. We do not guarantee or quantify weight loss, as it depends on individual body styles. However, Obesity is a complex health problem with multiple systemic involvements presenting with many other underlying medical conditions. This needs to be addressed comprehensively and not symptomatically as only weight loss. Suitable medical counselling will be provided on the first consultation regarding the treatment options for Obesity.
3. WHAT MUST I BRING ALONG?
The admission procedure will require identity proof (with the photograph), proof of residence and a passport-size photograph. Please bring minimum sets of comfortable clothes for yoga and exercise, woollen clothes in winter, personal care products, blankets and towels, a water bottle and walking shoes. Please avoid bringing expensive jewellery, watches, accessories and excess money. The home or its residents will not be responsible for any loss of personal property.
4. HOW DOES NATURE CURE HELP IN CONDITIONS OF OBESITY? I AM OVERWEIGHT BY 10 KGS. HOW MANY KILOS CAN I REDUCE IN 10 DAYS?
Naturopathy is not focused on cosmetic improvements to daily life. We do not guarantee or quantify weight loss, as it is dependent on individual
body styles. However Obesity is a complex health problem which has multiple systemic involvements presenting with many other underlying medical conditions. This needs to be addressed comprehensively and not symptomatically as only weight loss. Suitable medical counselling will be provided on first consultation regarding the treatment options for Obesity.
5. IS THERE A SPECIFIC TIME FOR ADMISSIONS AND DISCHARGE?
All admission procedures are completed between 9-11 am. You are requested to complete the discharge formalities before 3:00 pm on the day of discharge. Our standard check-out time is 7.00 am. Please plan your schedules accordingly.
6. AM I ALLOWED TO CONTINUE OTHER MEDICINES DURING THE COURSE OF MY TREATMENT?
Please bring all prescriptions and medications that you are currently taking. Following consultations with our doctors, you will be suitably advised about medication and dosage.
7. WHAT ARE THE TREATMENT OPTIONS AT R K NATURE CURE?
The treatment plan is designed after clinical assessment and the specific needs of the medical condition. There is a combination of external and internal therapies which will be planned specifically for every person. The treatment modalities include a wide range of hydrotherapy applications, Yoga, Therapeutic Swedish Massage, Mud therapy, Reflexology, Acupuncture, Exercise Therapy, Aromatherapy, Detoxification by Diet, Therapeutic juice fasting, etc.
8. DO I NEED TO BOOK MY ROOMS IN ADVANCE?
Yes. Please book your rooms one month in advance.
9. WHAT IS THE MODE OF PAYMENT?
The mode of payment is only through cash.
10. IS THERE A MINIMUM AGE FOR ADMISSION?
We usually do not recommend children under 10 or senior citizens over 70 years to undergo our treatment. Under 16 and above 70 should be accompanied by family members/caretakers. However, all cases are decided at the discretion of our team of doctors.
11. DO I NEED TO BRING MY MEDICAL REPORTS?
Yes. Please bring along all recent medical reports and investigations.

