Kriyas are a set of cleansing practices in yoga used to purify the mind and physical body.
There are six types of Yogic kriyas.

Kapalabhathi (cranial cleansing) 
Trataka 
Neti 
Dhouthi 
Nauli 
Vasti.

These kriyas help cleanse the body's metabolic wastes, which, at times, the body fails to eliminate naturally. According to Hatha Yoga, this cleansing can bring harmony in the energy flow and balance three doshas  Vata, Pitta and Kapha. According to Naturopathy, an imbalance in three doshas and an accumulation of toxins can cause ailments. The practice of Kriyas before pranayama thereby helps to prevent and cure diseases.
ENT Wash
Eye, Nose and Throat wash practices are taught and done under the supervision of qualified yoga experts daily at our hospital. Nasal wash, also called Jala Neti, is a type of kriya done to cleanse the nasal tract with saline water. Eyewash cleanses the impurities in the external eye, promotes circulation to the eye muscles and helps to cool down the system. Jala Neti or nasal irrigation/ wash is done to prevent nasal
congestion, bring out excess accumulated mucus from the sinus cavities, help improve immunity and prevent dust allergy, breathing disorders, sinusitis, respiratory illness, and headache due to congestion.
Eye-Wash-1Eye-Wash-GrpJala-Neti-PracticeYoga-Kriyas
Lagu Shanka Prakshalana 
( Lagu  less, Shanka  conch, Prakshalana  Cleansing)
The body is compared to a conch and is cleansed from mouth to anus with the help of saline water. Here the water used is lesser than the actual Shanka Prakshalana procedure; hence its called Lagu (lesser water). As this practice cleans the entire digestive tract, it helps to improve digestion, absorption and overall metabolism.
Vamanam
Vamanam is a dhauti kriya practice which is one of the shat kriyas. Its an excellent cleansing technique to remove toxins from the stomach and intestine. This is, in short, called a Gastric Cleanse or stomach wash. This also has a healing effect on the lungs. The practice of Vamana is very much useful in diseases like hyperacidity, asthma, respiratory diseases, allergies etc.

Frequently asked questions

What natural treatments are available in naturopathy for asthma management?
Naturopathy offers natural treatments for asthma management, including breathing exercises, simple botanical components like tulsi, peppermint, black pepper, turmeric, etc. di, et practices and dietary precautions, hydrotherapy, yoga therapy, and acupuncture. These methods aim to improve lung function and reduce asthma symptoms.

