Naturopathy is a system of medical practice which strongly believes in the bodys inbuilt capacity to defend, repair and heal itself. Hence is technically describes as a system of human health building in harmony with the constructive principles of nature in physical, mental and moral planes of being. 
Health care and cure by Naturopathy is based on certain fundamental philosophies like the 
1. The Pancha Maha Bhoota Theory (Theory of Five Great Elements)
2. Concept of Toxaemia linked to the Morbid Matter Theory

The Pancha Maha Bhoota Theory propounds that the body is a unique composition of Natures primary elements  Earth, Fire Water, Air and Ether. Treatment methods that follow this principle include:

 Prithivi chikitsa (Mud Therapy)  Represents  Element Earth
 Jala chikitsa (Water therapy)  Represents -Element Water
 Vayu chikitsa (Air therapy)  Represents -Element Air
 Akasha chikitsa (Detoxification therapy)  Represents -Element Vacuum
 Surya / Agni Chikitsa (Heliotherapy)  Represents -Element Fire.

The Concept of Toxaemia and Morbid Matter Theory proclaims that disease in the body is caused due to the inefficient or poor elimination of morbid or waste matter, which when accumulated causes various biochemical process resulting in formation of toxins. Proper discipline and lifestyle are fundamental to have an efficient elimination process in the body thereby channelling the vital energy to enjoy optimal health. 
Hydrotherapy
This method of treatment uses the different remedial properties of water to treat various health conditions. This is done so by altering the temperature, pressure, mode of application and other criteria to produce the desired physiological effects. It also uses water as an internal component to aid in the digestive process, to reduce acidity, eliminate waste and regulates body temperature, besides working as a skin hydrant.
Mud Therapy
This treatment uses the inherent advantages of minerals in mud and aims at retaining moisture within the body and is particularly effective for skin ailments. It also reduces pain and inflammation. It is known to tighten skin pores and add lustre to it. Mud therapy is very effective in regulation body temperature regulation and hence improving metabolic rate and digestion.
Leaf Bath
This is a unique and native therapy which is very efficient in detoxifying the body by activating the skin pores. This therapy requires the person to be completely wrapped in plantain leaves and exposed to moderate sun light in an open terrace. The process induces the pores of the skin to open up, causes profuse sweating and elimination of toxins resulting in a feeling of rejuvenation.
Sun Bath
Sun bath is an important naturopathy treatment in which the patient is deliberately exposed to the sunlight. It can help to facilitate sweating there by removes toxic wastes from the body and improves metabolism. The exposure to sun for the prescribed duration is therapeutically helpful in improving the Vitamin D level, prevent calcium deficiency, alleviate skin diseases and to regulate circadian rhythm.
Manipulative Therapies
Skilled masseurs manipulate different body parts, using a specific rhythm of strokes through optimum pressure. This form of treatment is aimed at relieving congestion and stagnation of fluids in the body, besides improving circulation. This relaxes muscles, improves joint mobility and invigorates fatigued nerves. Manipulative therapies are known to have calming effects on the patients as well.
Massage types
The following are the list of different types of massages given at RK Nature Cure Home.

Swedish massage with any one of these oils.

 Sesame oil
 Aroma oil
 Badam oil
 Grape seed oil
 Olive oil
 Coconut oil
 Jojoba oil

Salt Glow massage  this is a cold massage using salt and coconut oil for enhancing skin tone as well as burn calories by invigorating the blood circulation and metabolism.
Herbal powder scrub massage
Poultice massage with

 Rock salt and Oil
 Rice Husk and Herbal leaves

Fruit massage
Aloe Vera massage

Packs and Compresses
These are other forms of hydrotherapy treatment available at RK Nature Cure Home. Packs and compresses works on the principles of conduction and convection where water is used in the form of wraps namely pack or compress and applied over specific area of the body to facilitate heat, cold or warm reactions over various body parts for a wide range of health conditions. This is used in correcting metabolism, improving circulation, burning fat, improving functions of liver and kidneys, reducing pain etc.by influencing the blood circulation and reducing inflammation
External Applications (Herbal and Mud)
Herbal applications and mud applications are done to treat skin diseases and also to enhance the skin glow. There are a variety of herbal applications prescribed for therapy at our centre,

 Aloe vera
 Fenugreek
 Papaya
 Badam
 Multani mud
 Black mud
 Sweet Basil
 Neem
 Kadukai
 Turmeric
 Curd
 Guduchi
 Kasakasa etc.

Frequently asked questions

How can naturopathy support kidney function and health?
Naturopathy supports kidney function through specialized diet plans, simple botanical concoctions, hydrotherapy, acupuncture, and detoxification therapies. These treatments aim to improve renal functions and promote renal health.

What naturopathic approaches are effective for reducing weight?
Naturopathic approaches for reducing weight include personalized diet plans, physical activity regimens, and lifestyle changes. These methods aim to achieve sustainable weight reduction and improve overall health.

